Institute Vision & Mission
Vision :  “To be the center of excellence in technical education and research”.

Mission : “To address the emerging needs through quality technical education and advanced research”.

Institute Recognitions




We’re talking Self-Enlightenment.

CHAITANYA BHARATHI INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, established in the Year 1979, esteemed as the Premier Engineering Institute in the States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, was promoted by a Group of Visionaries from varied Professions of Engineering, Medical, Legal and Management, with an Objective to facilitate the Best Engineering and Management Education to the Students and contribute towards meeting the need of Skilled and Technically conversant Engineers and Management Professionals, for the Country that embarked on an Economic Growth Plan.

The Institute, committed to Education and Innovation, started with three-Degree Courses in Engineering for 200 Students and over the 45 Years, has emerged as a Dream Destination for; Students seeking to excel in Engineering and Management Education, Teaching Community to progress with a rewarding Career and Corporates to source well-rounded Engineers.

Stringent Academic Standards, Industry compliant Teaching Methodology, Research Projects from Private and Public Sector Industries in Engineering and Management and Consultancy Practice, enabled the Institute to establish its Identity in the Technical Education and is Ranked No. 1 amongst the Private Engineering Colleges in both the Telugu Speaking States.

The Practices and the Culture at the Institute has always been to provide Quality Education by enhancing the overall Educational experience of Students adopting a wide range of Academic, Practical, Co-Curricular, Extra-Curricular Programs in the State-of-the-Art Facilities, Services and Activities to enable the required exposure to a variety of Social, Cultural, Intellectual, Recreational Opportunities and Challenges. Such learning experiences have enriched the lives of Students and helped them to develop into a Multi-Skilled and Multi -Tasking Personalities that ensured success in their Careers and Occupations. Co-curricular and Extra-Curricular activities are planned and executed through a number of Associations, Clubs, Societies, Students’ Chapters of Professional Bodies, with a view to allow the Students, the necessary freedom to plan and execute every effort and in the process nurture them to be the future Leaders who learn to address Challenges and carve a path of Success.

In its Four Decades of existence, all the Stake Holders of the Institute, relentlessly endeavored to position CBIT as an Institution that is a Leader and an Innovator in the Ecosystem of Engineering Higher Education. With the Students being the singular Objective, the Institute has established excellent Infrastructure such as State-of – the Art Laboratories, spacious Library with Printed and Digital Collection of Books and Journals, Sports, Hostel, and other Infrastructure for Extra and Co-Curricular Engagements with a total Built-up Area of about 57,714 Sq. Mts., in the serene Ambience of 50 Acres to inspire, encourage and pursue Academics. In its relentless strive for Academic excellence, CBIT has scaled great heights both Nationally and Internationally in Industry and Global Universities.

We are known for our immaculate engineering and management courses, our emphasis on research and advanced methods of instruction always keep pushing towards excellence. Our students can be found in the top positions in various professions, from politics to sports to academics to social work to the corporate sector. Regardless of the profession they choose, one thing always remains the same, they stop at nothing short of greatness. Pursuing their passion helps them achieve things which seem impossible for others. They set standards that are hard to live by. A notch above the rest, CBIT students are trained to tackle any challenges with utmost finesse.

Affiliations & Accreditations 
Permanently Affiliated to Osmania University, Hyderabad.
Autonomous Institution (UGC Approved) since 2013.
Accredited in the third cycle by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) with Grade A++.
All UG Engineering and five PG Programs have been Accredited by National Board of Accreditation.
Awards & Recognitions
12B Status by UGC
ISO 9001:2015 Certified Institution
Ranked No.1 in both the Telugu states amongst the Self-financed Engineering Institutions
Ranked all India 151-200 band by NIRF-MHRD,2023
Ranked 2nd in the State of Telangana  by the Education World, 2022.
Ranked all India 38th by Week 2021.
Ranked all India 36th by Outlook June 2020
Recognition of departments as research centers
Academics Highlights
Top Rankers of EAMCET / JEE are seeking admission
Facility to earn Honors &Minor Engineering Degree
333+ Highly Dedicated & Experienced Faculty and Staff
140+ Faculty are with Ph. D
68+Research Projects from AICTE, DST, DRDO, MSME, State Governments
14+ Patents Registered
7500+Publications
Placements Highlights
Excellent internships and Placement Opportunities
1375+ Placements with Rs.45.6 Lakh Highest Package during 2022-23
59.91 Lakhs Highest Package by Atlassian (2023-24)
Total 20610 Students placed in more than 200+ globally reputed companies
Strong Alumni relationship with more than 25000+ Alumni across the Globe
Infrastructure
State of Art Infrastructure
45 Computer labs with 2200+ Computers
Wi-Fi enabled Campus
Spacious well stocked Library & Information Centre with huge inventory of Printed and Digital collection of Books & Journals      (1.00 lakh+volumes & 5000+ E.Journals ( IEEE, Science Direct, Springer, ASCE, ASME, EBSCO-BSE, Access Engg etc.)
Established CBIT-NPTEL Local Chapter
Registered National Digital Library of India (NDLI) Club
34 Clubs for Co / Extra Curricular Activities
Effective Mentoring and Strong Teaching Learning Process
Industry Complied Pedagogy
Industry expertise labs established by Hexagon, Cognizant, AAU,SAC-ISROetc.
State of Art Incubation Centers by ACIC & MSME
More than 56 MoUs including recent AWS,Coursera
Coding School Established to meet the emerging Industry needs

First Management Committee [21-09-1979]
S.No	Name	Designation
1	JUSTICE KONDA MADHAVA REDDY is Chairman
2	PADMABHUSHAN Dr. P. SIVAREDDY	Vice Chairman
3	A.P. RANGANADHA SWAMY	Vice Chairman
4	VASTHUSHILPI Dr. B.N. REDDY	Vice Chairman
5	Dr. V. MALAKONDA REDDY	Secretary
6	SRI T. YOGAIAH NAIDU	Joint Secretary
7	SRI D. KAMALAKAR REDDY	Treasurer
8	Dr. B. VENKAT REDDY	Member
9	SRI N. MASTANAIAH CHOWDARY	Member
10	SRI J. SHYAM SUNDER REDDY	Member
11	SRI P. PRABHAKAR REDDY	Member
12	SRI V.V. NARAYANA	Member
13	PROF. G. RAMANA REDDY	Member

CBIT – Institutional Committees
 

Academic Audit Committee	Anti Ragging Committee
Anti-Sexual Harassment Committee	Co-Curricular & Extra-Curricular Activities Committee
College Admissions Committee	Electoral Literacy Club (ELC)
Energy Audit Committee	Exams Results Committee
Ethics Committee	Grievance Redressal Committee for Staff
Grievance Redressal Committee for Students	Green Audit Committee
Internal Complaints Committee	Institute Industry Cell
Institute Innovation Cell	Intellectual Property Right (IPR) Cell
Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC)	Library Committee
Minority Cell	OBC Cell
Planning Evaluation Committee	Psychological Counselling Committee
Research Advisory Committee	Research Projects Monitoring Committee
SC/ST Cell	Social Media Cell
Student Counselling Committee	Student Welfare Committee
Women Development Cell


Undergrad and Postgrad Courses – The CBIT Edge
CHAITANYA BHARATHI INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, established in the Year 1979, esteemed as the Premier Engineering Institute in the States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, was promoted by a Group of Visionaries from varied Professions of Engineering, Medical, Legal and Management, with an Objective to facilitate the Best Engineering and Management Education to the Students and contribute towards meeting the need of Skilled and Technically conversant Engineers and Management Professionals, for the Country that embarked on an Economic Growth Plan.

The Institute, committed to Education and Innovation, started with three-Degree Courses in Engineering for 200 Students and over the last 45 Years has emerged as a Dream Destination for: Students seeking to excel in Engineering and Management Education, Teaching Community to progress with a rewarding Career and Corporates to source well-rounded Engineers.

Stringent Academic Standards, Industry compliant Teaching Methodology, Research Projects from Private and Public Sector Industries in Engineering and Management and Consultancy Practice, enabled the Institute to establish its Identity in the Technical Education and is Ranked No. 1 amongst the Private Engineering Colleges in both the Telugu Speaking States.

The Practices and the Culture at the Institute has always been to provide Quality Education by enhancing the overall Educational experience of Students adopting a wide range of Academic, Practical, Co-Curricular, Extra-Curricular Programs in the State-of-the-Art Facilities, Services and Activities to enable the required exposure to a variety of Social, Cultural, Intellectual, Recreational Opportunities and Challenges. Such learning experiences have enriched the lives of Students and helped them to develop into a Multi-Skilled and Multi -Tasking Personalities that ensured success in their Careers and Occupations. Co-curricular and Extra-Curricular activities are planned and executed through a number of Associations, Clubs, Societies, Students’ Chapters of Professional Bodies, with a view to allow the Students, the necessary freedom to plan and execute every effort and in the process nurture them to be the future Leaders who learn to address Challenges and carve a path of Success. In its Four Decades of existence, all the Stake Holders of the Institute, relentlessly endeavored to position CBIT as an Institution that is a Leader and an Innovator in the Ecosystem of Engineering Higher Education. With the Students being the singular Objective, the Institute has established excellent Infrastructure such as State-of – the Art Laboratories, spacious Library with Printed and Digital Collection of Books and Journals, Sports, Hostel, and other Infrastructure for Extra and Co-Curricular Engagements with a total Built-up Area of about 57,714 Sq. Mts., in the serene Ambience of 50 Acres to inspire, encourage and pursue Academics. In its relentless strive for Academic excellence, CBIT has scaled great heights both Nationally and internationally in the Industry and in Global Universities.


Departments
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Department of Electronics and Communications Engineering
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI&ML)
Department of Computer Engineering and Technology
Department of Information Technology
Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
Department of Chemical Engineering
Department of Biotechnology
Department of Physics
Department of Chemistry
Department of Mathematics
Department of English
Department of MCA
School of Management Studies
Department of Physical Education

